---
layout: post
title:  "TIL, 2017-06-20"
date:   2017-06-20 19:24:02 +0800
categories: travel
---

## Singapore Day 2 (2017-06-20)

- Costing
- You absolutely need a power bank to survive here. This is by far the primary reason to stop.
- Reload water whenever you can. Feet hurt after God knows how Long I walked today.
- While the directions to the MRTs are good, the directions to the buses probably need another app.
- Bring toiletries from home here, then check them in. You spent an absurd amount of money on toiletries.
- The tourist SIM card - $30 SGD for 10 days. No signal in Chinatown MRT, so there.
- Clothes are like really expensive?
- The conversion rate: eye covers for Miniso are like twice as expensive.
- Probably shit more times than you really needed.
- Don't go to places that you would probably see in the Philippines already. Chinatown, Little India.
- Okay Marina Sands area is nice.
- Coffees are expensive AF, Free the Robot: 7.50, Coffee Bean: 7.90 for medium.
- Last bus: 11:30 pm.

## Singapore Day 3 (2017-06-21)

- I saw a freaking squirrel in a normal park.
- Don't need to go outside every day. There is a big chance that you go back here at some point anyway.
- It's like super hot outside, good thing you didn't go to the zoo. But the zoo is good.
- Botanical garden--takes a long time to explore. Just visited the north third of the park. Nice to walk around in.
- Bugis is like super big.
- The walk to the Flower Dome is probably around 20 minutes. Not sure if the cost was worth it ($16), though the agave (plant with big leaves), the baobab, and 10 different cacti were worth it.
- Good Nasi Lemak and Laksa: 363 Katong Laksa.
- Good curry: Scissors Curry Rice in Bugis.
- Took 4 shits today, lol.
- Marina Sands is awesome.
- Legoland Malaysia: The rides are for kids only. So yeah.
- The concern for PWD in this city is just awesome. All pedestrian crossings have ramps.
- It's actually viable to move around using a scooter because of the smooth roads.

## Singapore Day 4 (2017-06-22)

- Sentosa: Just not that good if you go there at 5pm.
- Education costs in SG are really expensive.
- 3 types of pass for folks here.
- Biking: The o-bikes work, but you'll probably just average 10kph with them. Also, it's weird, do you go on the sidewalk or on the road?
- It's so weird that a lot of old people here are still working.
- Also weird, the timezone apparently? It's south of Thailand but the time is the same as in Manila.

## Singapore Day 7 (2017-06-25)

- Lots of people in Bugis. Like, lots.
- KFC not that good like in the Philippines.
- Damn this stupid no power bank self of mine.
- Lucked into a mosque after Salat
