---
layout: post
title:  "TIL, 2017-05-16"
date:   2017-05-16 15:39:31 +0800
categories: programming
---

- Thinking about pre-workout.
- Coffee timings: half a cup when waking up, rest of the half a cup when starting work, tea about 3 hours later, coffee 3 hours later, then coffee again 3 hours later (at around 11, 30 minutes before starting the main workout).
- Still better to meal prep at home. Burgers and chicken.
- Read more on sleeping. Like a lot more.

## This Is What Happens to Your Body on a Thru-Hike
[Reference](https://www.outsideonline.com/2125031/what-happens-your-body-thru-hike)

- Hiked for 29 days (more than eight hours a day).
- Before: 150 lbs, BMI 22.2, body fat 13%. Post-hike, 140 lbs, BMI 20.7, body fat 5%. I had basically walked myself into a super-fit athlete's body.
- Resting heart rate: 48 BPM to 40 BPM. Stronger heart pushes more body through the blood with each beat.
- Blood sugar: 5.9% to 5.6%. Before the trip, I was exercising for 40-60 minutes/day, but sitting for at least 8 hours while working in front of a computer.
- *Blood sugar levels were better controlled by walking throughout the day, rather than running or biking just once a day.* Walking after meals are shown to be effective for lowering blood sugar levels.
- Cortisol/testosterone. Cortisol dropped 40%--stress-reducing benefits of being in nature, even when you're pushing your body.
- Testosterone regulates energy, libido, muscle growth, aggression. Testosterone more than doubled (maybe because of carrying a heavy pack?).
- Metabolic efficiency: Through diet and training, an athlete can burn fat at higher intensities than previously believed.
- Before the trip, 66% fat and 34% carbs during low-intensity exercise or any activity during which I had 112 BPM HR.
- At 110 BPM, I was burning 91% fat and 9% carb. At 145 BPM, I was burning 70% fat and 30% carb. Even at 184 BPM, I was still getting a quarter or my energy from fat.
- In addition to my daily workout, I try to walk throughout the day, especially after meals.
