---
layout: post
title:  "TIL, 2017-05-17"
date:   2017-05-17 13:18:10 +0800
categories: fitness
---

- Bike workouts: Need to eat before hand, you will bonk like yesterday.
- Post-workout should really just be tofu, eggs, some oatmeal, protein powder. No tapsilogs.
- Can't really wake up for yoga at 7am since it will destroy my biological clock for the day.
- Chill pace running is still about 9 minutes. Fuck.
- Core -- you can do the Anytime Bootcamp core classes.
- I think I should have gone to coach Rey's suspension classes.

## Helpful Weight Loss Tips: How to Burn Fat While Running
[Reference](https://www.runtastic.com/blog/en/veras-viewpoint/how-to-burn-fat-while-running/)

- Fat burning: The ability of our bodies to oxidize or burn fat and use fat as a fuel, instead of carbohydrates.
- In general, more fat is burned through high-oxygen activities like walking, running, biking.
- Most fat is burned during low-intensity physical activities.
- *You burn fat ideally while running at a pace where you would be able to maintain a full conversation. This should be a pace that you would theoretically be able to maintain for up to 8 hours, slow. Your body keeps burning fat for 2-3 hours after finishing a run.*
- Pre-breakfast run: In the morning, on an empty stomach, 40 minutes max. VO2 max of 50-60% so about 75% of your max HR. (If my max HR is 190, then that would mean in the 140 BPM range.
- HIIT: Intense interval training challenges your muscles even more. When we're pushing our heart rate until reaching the anaerobic zone, our bodies resort to our carb reserves and burn more calories due to the hard muscle work, even after the run.
- *During high-intensity, anaerobic training sessions the percentage of fat in the metabolic process is lower. However, due to the intense exercise the total calorie consumption is higher. Plus, the body needs more energy for recovery, thereby burning even more fat.*
- Have a coffee or green tea before your morning run to really boost your metabolism (due to the caffeine contained).
