---
layout: post
title:  "TIL, 2017-05-31"
date:   2017-05-31 13:43:39 +0800
categories: fitness
---

- [Reference](http://running.competitor.com/2011/01/ask-the-experts/ask-the-experts-is-my-heart-rate-too-high_19952)Training plans are pace-based. HR is fine as a secondary metric for monitoring, but if you are running a 10K race, you will have a high heart rate most of the time.
- Whoever wins that race will most probably have the highest average heart rate, or close to the highest. A high average heart rate in a race is an indication of a greater work capacity, and a greater work capacity is what gets a runner to the finish line first.
- The point in racing a 10K is to finish it in the shortest time possible. *Thus, the point of training for a 10K is to reduce the amount of time required to complete a 10K.* Or, put another way, the point of training for a 10K is to increase the speed that you can sustain through the full race distance.
- Heart rate is closely tied to speed, so being faster means the more oxygen your muscles demand, and the faster your heart has to pump to supply adequate oxygen.
- The stronger your heart becomes through training, the faster it can beat in powering your legs through any duration or distance of exercise.
- Thus, no way to attain the goal of lowering your 10K finishing time without increasing the heart rate that you sustain in covering that distance.
- 7:30-8min/km is a bit too slow, since that is almost like walking. Just do run-walk style. You can try sprint intervals (this can wake up muscle fibers that you haven't been using doing your normal runs, and suddenly you can pick up the pace a bit.
- [`verywell.com`](https://www.verywell.com/) is a good site.
- There is a problem with the
