---
layout: post
title:  "TIL, 2017-02-26"
date:   2017-02-26 19:21:18 +0800
categories: jekyll update
---

- Ruby `benchmark` class. Apparently, catching `AR::RecordInvalid` is super slow!
- However, if you don't expect to hit the exception often, then you can still wrap transactions just in case.
- The idea about design patterns is that you don't read one and then try to use it immediately. You read a lot, don't understand them that much, but keep them in your head because you might need them at some point.
- Pre-logic hooks methods work well in service classes where you need to make sure of some things before running the actual code, at least you avoid if statement hell.
- Didn't know about [Virtual Account Proxy](https://github.com/nslocum/design-patterns-in-ruby/blob/master/proxy/virtual_account_proxy.rb). This can be useful if you don't want to execute immediately.
- Revisit AR updating attributes [reference](http://www.davidverhasselt.com/set-attributes-in-activerecord/)

      # These are the same, they don't change the attribute in the database yet (need to save)
      user.name = 'Rob' and user.write_attribute(:name, 'Rob')

      # This method will set all the attributes you pass it.
      # The changes are not saved to the database.
      user.attributes = { name: 'Rob', age: 12 }

      # This will change the attribute in the model and skip database validations
      # Any other changed attributes are also saved
      user.update_attribute(:name, 'Rob')

      # Check attributes, check validations, updates the record in the databae
      user.update or user.update_attributes

      # Execute a direct SQL UPDATE and skips validations and callbacks.
      # Raises an exception if any of the columns are readonly.
      user.update_columns(name: 'Rob') or user.update_column(:name, 'Rob')

      # Find and update, runs validations
      User.update(1, name: 'Rob')

      # SQL UPDATE, no validations or callbacks
      User.where(name: 'Robbie').update_all(name: 'Rob')
