---
layout: post
title:  "TIL, 2017-06-20"
date:   2017-06-20 19:24:02 +0800
categories: programming
---

## Singapore Ruby Group Meetup

### To ORM or not to ORM - Mykola Kyryk

- Web dev is mostly about CRUDs.
- ORM/AR: AR wraps a row in a database table or view, encapsulates database access, and adds domain logic on that data.
- AR: If you need to get values from multiple tables, what do you do?
- PocketMath workflow: customer creates ad campaign, platform receives traffic, then we check if the click can be linked to us.
- API endpont: See money spent and clicks per campaign.

``` ruby
{
  campaign_name => campaigns table
  total_budget => campaigns table
  spend => money spent, from stats table
  clicks => clicks, from stats table
}
```

- New requirement, if you need to measure the campaign stats for a user, since campaign `belongs_to` customer.
- You do the map thing, but you will run into the N+1 query.
- You can do the join thing `customer.campaigns.join(:stats)`, but you don't select `stats` and `customer` table by default.
- You can do the custom `select`, but it returns more rows.
- You can do the custom `select` with `join`, using an aggregate `as` and `group`.
- Moving the query to the scope: you either do the custom SQL as a scope, or you use Arel in the scope.
- Result: You are able to select values from 2 tables, db does the heavy lifting, you can customize AR with SQL.
- Problem: AR is expensive. The solution is to do the `pluck` method, the problem is that you can't call methods defined on an AR class. You need to do the `as spend`.
- So that solves the thing, but new problem. How do you do the same thing. You can create an SQL view. Um technically you can actually do an inherits from AR::Base, but you can't do inserts. You can only do `wheres`.

#### Summary

- Prefer pure SQL to Arel, because you never change databases anyway (and if you do change, db-specific things like groups will not work.
- ORM for third party code, since it returns AR::Relation. You can use things like `kaminari`, `paper_trail`
- SQL database view comes with `db:schema:load`.

### Releasing your First Gem - Peter

- Need to do mail migrations, previously this was a shell script.
- Swiss Army Knife for SMTP

#### Peter's Rules

- Google it.
- You will write code so ugly, not even a mother can love it.
- Nobody will read it anyway.

## Confess Your MongoDB Opinions - Emily Stolfo

- Postgres has JSON support so why Mongo? You can index inside the keys, but you can't aggregate inside the keys.
- All data is relational, so what data do you gain?
- MongoDB good points: aggregation?
- Rails people think in models and database tables.
- Aggregating thing is done in C++, faster than map reduce JS.
