---
layout: post
title:  "TIL, 2017-05-04"
date:   2017-05-04 11:47:05 +0800
categories: programming
---

How to make a system command with thor:

``` ruby
#!/usr/bin/env ruby
require './pomodoro_cli'

PomodoroCli.start(ARGV)
```

- Must `require thor` on the thor command object.
- Thor aliases.
- Why do I need `i18n` for thor stuff?
- `tzinfo` gem: For daylight savings awareness.
- Bundler: Without a `bundle exec`, Ruby will try to use the gem that is in the local environment.
- `bundle clean --force` basically removes all instances of a gem in the system.
- `git remote rm` to remove a remote URL from the repository.
- CSV: Excel exports CSVs differently.

## Forking the upstream
[Reference](https://gist.github.com/CristinaSolana/1885435)

### 1. Clone your fork:

    git clone git@github.com:YOUR-USERNAME/YOUR-FORKED-REPO.git

### 2. Add remote from original repository in your forked repository:

    cd into/cloned/fork-repo
    git remote add upstream git://github.com/ORIGINAL-DEV-USERNAME/REPO-YOU-FORKED-FROM.git
    git fetch upstream

### 3. Updating your fork from original repo to keep up with their changes:

    git pull upstream master

## Devs and Depression

#### Symptoms of Bipolar Depression

- Hyperfocus.
- Racing thoughts.
- Pressured speech. These are usually due to the racing thoughts.
- Social isolation.
- Irregular sleep (insomnia).
- Grandiosity (thinking the rules don't apply to you and that you're better than everyone else).
- Software development: We accept the socially isolated. We will work with irregular sleeping patterns. We will seek out people who have the grandiosity to believe that they can solve problems that other people can't. We accept irregular burst of productivity. And our heroes are the people who are crazy enough to believe that they can change the world.
- Verbal cues to describe punctuation when pairing with someone.
- Caleb: "He was so damn smart, he was really good at covering it up to make it seem like it wasn't so bad." He died of an overdose.
- The history of computer science is littered with many tragedies like this.
- Aaron Schwartz conversation about being sick.
- The shame is what is killing us. The shame and stigma around mental illness is why our co-workers and friends are suffering. For some reason we have different rules for illnesses that affect the brain.
- *This is especially true for developers, because we spent so much of our lives getting praise for how our brain works, that the idea that it could possibly be misfunctioning threatens our identity and our self-worth.*
- Most importantly, I am now dependable and reliable. Going to see a therapist has a stigma, but why? Why should you not have a third party that listens? Same with marriage counseling.
- Just talk to people. If you feel that you're struggling with this stuff, just tell your friends about it.
- Things get better. We just need to start talking about it.

## Aaron Schwartz:

*I have a lot of illnesses. I don’t talk about it much, for a variety of reasons. I feel ashamed to have an illness. (It sounds absurd, but there still is an enormous stigma around being sick.) I don’t want to use being ill as an excuse. (Although I sometimes wonder how much more productive I’d be if I wasn't so sick.) And, to a large extent, I just don’t find it an interesting subject. (My friends are amazed by this; why is such a curious person so uncurious about the things so directly affecting his life?)*
