---
layout: post
title:  "TIL, 2017-05-16"
date:   2017-05-16 14:45:38 +0800
categories: programming
---

- A bunch of things regarding authentication tokens.
- Strava API: I think I can build a better client. Hehe.
- AS: `extract_options!` extracts the options from a given set or arguments. When no options are available, return a blank Hash. Problem is it mutates. But with kwargs, this isn't really helpful any more.
- `Array#wrap` is a thing.

``` ruby
Array.wrap(nil)       # => []
Array.wrap([1, 2, 3]) # => [1, 2, 3]
Array.wrap(0)         # => [0]
```

- Deploying: `bundle exec cap staging deploy && say 'deployed' &`
- Silent deploy: `nohup sh -c "(bundle exec cap staging deploy --dry-run && say 'done deploy') &"`
- Run a shell command from `nohup` via 1`sh -c`.
- The `&` at the end of a shell command will background the command.
- Text to speech has different voices. I will try using Ava's voice.
- NAT/Network Address Translation--converts the addresses in a local subnet to the true IP address in the "public" subnet.

## Extra Time
- Exercise. You need to have the energy to make the most out of all that free time that you have. Exercise increases energy levels.
- Reading. The stuff you learned in school might be useless. Real-life knowledge like finances, social skills, diet, fitness. You can become an expert in any field by only reading 3 books about that field (expert meaning you know more than 99% of the population).
- Meditation: You are training your brain which thoughts to focus on and what things to do. This is the one habit that can change your life.
- Passion: Everyone has something that triggers a child-like state of excitement. The other three give you the ability to do this. Reading--gives you the knowledge to improve on your craft. Meditation--gives you the head space for creativity. Exercise--gives you the energy to work on your passion.
- When you work on your hobby long enough, it can become a source of income.
