---
layout: post
title:  "TIL, 2017-05-15"
date:   2017-05-15 15:08:36 +0800
categories: programming
---

- `add_timestamps :table_name_pluralized`
- You can create `private` methods inside of a Rails AS::Concern. It's portable code, extractable behavior. [Reference](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/14928176/rails-activesuppportconcern-and-private-methods)

- Intentionality: Does this thing help me get to the point that I want to go to in my life.
- Minimalism: Getting rid of things that don't matter. "To be someone, we have to own this and stand by this brand and be with this tribe."
- Same with relationships. Which ones of these are dead weight and which of these are valuable to be with.
- Be intentional with your relationships. Do these people deserve your time? Form relationships with people on purpose. Make sure that the valuable people get attention.
- Same with work. We base our success on the metric of money. Ask yourself if you're doing work that is bigger than you.
- Money can buy happiness if you buy the right things.
- Combine your things, your relationships, and your work, and that is you. The weird lifestyle I have is me. *The things I own, the people I spend my time with, and the work that I do is me.*
- People who care about you want you to be secure. When you start living intentionally, it could look unstable. All you can do to convince them is to show them the benefits. Tell them what you're up to, and tell them that this is what you are doing. If they don't get it, it's okay. They have theirs and you have yours.
- Not everybody has an opportunity to take a step back and take a look at your life.
- Do your best to live your life with a purpose.
