---
layout: post
title:  "TIL, 2018-04-14"
date:   2018-04-14 23:26:38 +0800
categories: programming
summary: "Auto-increment."
---

# Musings, Database

- Is it good practice to always have an auto-increment integer primary key? [Reference](https://softwareengineering.stackexchange.com/questions/328458/is-it-good-practice-to-always-have-an-autoincrement-integer-primary-key?utm_medium=organic&utm_source=google_rich_qa&utm_campaign=google_rich_qa)
  - German tank problem: Get the estimated number of so-and-so based on the IDs or the serial numbers of whatever that was.
  - This isn't just a URL thing, it's also an ID thing, like you can see how many posts were added in so-and-so timeslot.
  - Usually better to have a guaranteed row identifier.
  - SQLite always makes a comment under the hood.
  - UUIDs: Okay, but they take up too much space for the majority of tables. Also, indexing?
  - Drawbacks:
    - If you have a business key, you have to add a unique index on that column to enforce rules.
    - The sync is not as simple because you need to create an equivalence key?
    - If the system grows so large that you need to shard, you can no longer use AI to produce a globally unique key.
  - There are very few things that don't change: even usernames and home addresses (given street naming changes) change.
  - For gigantic ERPs, your integer autoincrement does:
    - Easier to remember convention.
    - You can JOIN tables without needing to check what the keys are.
    - Just refer to IDs of existing tables.
  - Examples of no identity column:
    - In many-many cross reference tables. The foreign key columns can reference each table's PK.
    - When you plan on inserting and deleting in bulk on this table a lot.
    - Distributed tables.
    - Uniqueness across multiple rows in the DB.

- Primary Keys: IDs versus GUIDs: [Reference](https://blog.codinghorror.com/primary-keys-ids-versus-guids/)
  - GUID Pros:
    - Unique across every table, every database, every server.
    - Allows easy merging of records from different databases.
    - Allows easy distribution of databases across multiple servers.
    - You can generate IDs anywhere, instead of having a roundtrip to the database.
    - Most replication scenarios require GUID columns anyway.
  - GUID Cons:
    - Takes up more memory.
    - Cumbersome to debug.
    - Should be partially sequential for best performance.

# Cloud Computing Trends: 2018 State of the Cloud Survey
[Reference](https://www.rightscale.com/blog/cloud-industry-insights/cloud-computing-trends-2018-state-cloud-survey)

- Public cloud increasing as top priority.
- Serverless is increasing: (12-21% adoption).
- Docker and Kubernetes is up.
- Ansible and Chef for configuration tools.
- Enterprises: Azure is up.
- Private cloud: VMware Sphere, OpenStack.

