---
layout: post
title:  "TIL, 2018-02-06"
date:   2018-02-06 00:28:06 +0800
categories: programming
---

## Musings

- HN/Rust: Skylight uses an agent embedded in Rails applications. Ruby = high memory, C++ = high risk of crashes.
  - 92% smaller than Ruby agent.

## Optimize Rails performance bottleneck with caching and Rack middleware
[Reference](https://pawelurbanek.com/2018/02/05/optimize-rails-performance-bottleneck-with-caching-and-rack-middleware/)

- Redis for slow AR queries. For Heroku, you can have Redis to Go.
- Sidekiq Cron used to update the cache every half an hour.
- A Redis hit means no database query and also reduces memory usage because you don't need to instantiate ActiveRecord objects.
- Rack middleware: You can create your own middleware, so that the app doesn't pass through Rails.

## Limit Rails memory usage, fix R14 and save money on Heroku
[Reference](https://pawelurbanek.com/2018/01/15/limit-rails-memory-usage-fix-R14-and-save-money-on-heroku/)

- `gem derailed_benchmarks` to see which gems consume a lot of memory.
- `jemalloc` as an alternative to the official MRI memory allocator.
- Limiting concurrency and workers. Just 1?
- Optimize JSON parsing? `gem yaji-ruby`.

## Ruby under a Microscope

- `defs/keywords` contains all the keywords in Ruby.
- `redo` and `retry` are used to execute parts of the loop. `redo` repeats the current iteration, `retry` repeats the whole loop from the start. [Reference](http://rubyquicktips.com/post/1122838559/redo-vs-retry)
- `undef` apparently is a reserved word, but how would you use it?
  - [Reference](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4696507/practical-use-for-undef)
  - [Reference](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/543774/undef-why-would-you-want-to-undefine-a-method-in-ruby)
  - This is used in things like mocking.
  - Rails codebase: Used for testing the behavior of classes with and without modules mixed-in.
  - This can be used for blocking a class explicitly defined in the superclass.
  - For mixins: you can include the whole mixin, but remove the methods it shouldn't support. Ex: in the graphics library `shoes`, the `button` class mixes in `clickable`, but `undef`'s the `release` method because buttons don't support it.
- You can sort of include methods dynamically.
  - `Form.send(:include, FormExportingMethods)` if you really need to.

## 99 Bottles of OOP

- Shameless green.
- Transformation Priority Premise: It makes sense, but it's like, too robot-like/nuanced?
- Tests: Sometimes it's just better to test the hardcoded strings rather than pass through a function.
