---
layout: post
title:  "TIL, 2018-08-15, on Go, Icebreakers"
date:   2018-08-15 09:27:41 +0800
categories: programming
summary: "Reading Medium"
---

# Why should you learn Go?
[Reference](https://medium.com/exploring-code/why-should-you-learn-go-f607681fad65)

- Why Go? Moore's Law is failing: at smaller scale, it's just not practical to add more transistors. Manufacturers have added more cores, added hyperthreading, and added more cache, but those have limitations: the bigger the cache, the slower its gets. Hardware improvement is slowing, at some point, you need more efficient software to increase performance.
- Goroutines: today's applications use multiple microservices for maintaining database connections, message queues, and maintain caches. So, the software we develop should support concurrency easily and should be scalable with more cores.
  - Goroutines only use more memory when needed, faster startup time than threads, come with built-in primitives to communicate safely between themselves, and allow you to avoid having to resort to mutex locking when sharing data structures.
- Directly compiled: when you build an app using Java, it compiles human-readable code to bytecode which can be understood by the JVM or other virtual machines. On the other side, C/C++ does not execute on VMs.
- Code in Go: no classes, no inheritance, no constructors, no annotations, no generics, no exceptions.
- Even if you don't have any plans to learn Go, hardware limits still puts pressure on us software developers to write super efficient code.
- Comments:
  - Go runs directly on hardware without letting you get at the hardware, making it no faster than Java on average, not like C++.
  - Abstraction capabilities are practically non-existent: it's hard to build complex projects and the compiler won't help you.

# Why the Most Important Idea in Behavioral Decision-Making Is a Fallacy
[Reference](https://blogs.scientificamerican.com/observations/why-the-most-important-idea-in-behavioral-decision-making-is-a-fallacy/?sf194849524=1)

- Loss aversion: humans are more motivated by our fears than by our aspirations?
- This is essentially a fallacy: there is no general cognitive bias that leads people to avoid losses more vigorously than to pursue gains.
- For sure, big financial losses have a larger effect (if losing 10K means giving up your roof, and gaining 10K means going on an extra vacation, then it's perfectly rational to be more concerned with the loss than the gain).

# The 25 most popular icebreaker questions based on four years of data
[Reference](https://m.signalvnoise.com/the-25-most-popular-icebreaker-questions-based-on-four-years-of-data-893df9b27531)

- What was your first job?
- Have you ever met anyone famous?
- hat are you reading now?
- If you could pick up a new skill in an instant, what would it be?
- Who's someone you really admire?
- What are good movies lately you'd recommend?
- Got any favorite quotes?
- Been pleasantly surprised by anything lately?
- Favorite band 10 years ago?
- Earliest memory?
- Been anywhere recently for the first time?
- What's your favorite family tradition?
- Who had the most influence on you growing up?
- What was the first thing you bought with your own money?
- What's something you want to do in the next year that you've never done before?
- What's something you've seen lately that made you smile?
- What's your favorite place you've ever visited?
- Have you had your 15 minutes of fame yet?
- What's the best advice you've ever heard?
- How do you like your eggs?
- Do you collect anything?
- What's your favorite breakfast cereal?
