---
layout: post
title:  "TIL, 2018-08-06, Unit Tests in JS"
date:   2018-08-06 10:58:20 +0800
categories: programming
summary: "Unit Tests in JS"
---

# 7 Things to Start Being More Productive, Today
[Reference](https://medium.com/@cammipham/7-things-you-need-to-stop-doing-to-be-more-productive-backed-by-science-a988c17383a6)

- Being productive: time management and managing your energy. Spending the least amount of energy to get the most benefits.
- Being overtired leads to having a negative perspective, which leads to a generalized low mood. This mindset is often accompanies by decreases in willingness to act proactively, control impulses, feel positive about yourself, empathize with others, and generally use emotional intelligence.
- Don't say "yes" too often: Stop saying "yes" to tasks that yield little or no result. Try a split test: track everything you do, the time it takes to complete each task, and the results.
- "I can't" vs "I don't".
- For activities you shouldn't be engaging in, add an element of difficulty when starting that activity.
- Being a great content marketer: not about creating the best content, but building a great community that will generate high-quality content for you.
- Instead of wasting time and energy overloading yourself or trying to do it alone, let others share the burden and help.
- *Distractable people get more done when there is someone else there, even if he isn't coaching or assisting them.*
- Stop guessing, and start backing up your decisions with data.
- Stop working, and take time to do nothing at all. It's important to take time for reflection.

# The Benefits and Pitfalls of Pair Programming in the Workplace
[Reference](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/the-benefits-and-pitfalls-of-pair-programming-in-the-workplace-e68c3ed3c81o)

- Fewer mistakes, harder to procrastinate, shared best practices, faster on-boarding, can identify if the candidate can program with others, increase employee satisfaction.
- 1.5-2.5 hours, reward shared contribution, pair up and discuss on complex code.


- Testing a job perform, initialize the instance and reference it, so you can use `expect(job).to(receive)`
- Push models, setup env
- Acceptance test: don't introspect, prepare input, assert output, everything in the middle doesn't matter
- What happens when user has no permission, server error codes, when everything goes well, and ensuring that validations work
- Fill in name etc


Integration test:
  - Don't rely on ember data, don't use Ajax unless component is bound to it. You can just pass a hash instead of a model
  - Unit test for components
  - Component: edge cases
  - One component, one test for that file, and

Unit tests:

- Only testing JS.
- Test models, services, and serializers



- We can have prop types at some point.
- Always mock, like always.
- `renderApplication`: library methods, `hooks`. You can also put the `permissions` or whatever things you need
- `emberShadow`:
- `semantic-assertions`
- Acceptance test: Must not have CSS in them. The test (semantic-test-helpers) also makes sure from the Label name
- Ideally no `wait` as long as the code is written correctly.

- fat arrow behavior in ES6
- async function, await keyword on visit, click
- push before rendering the app
- `assert.url`
- `QUnit`
