---
layout: post
title:  "TIL, 2018-02-07"
date:   2018-02-07 23:45:38 +0800
categories: programming
---

## Musings

- It's funny how `activesupport` needs `require active_support` huhu.
- `active_support/core_ext/date` to just get date-related stuff.

## 99 Bottles

- Flocking rules for refactoring. Better to do tiny changes (if possible, 1 line) and test rather than doing a lot of changes and then testing (rehacktoring).
- Think of concepts that make sense. In `Bottles`, those were "quantity", "pronoun", "action".
- When you make a new abstraction, apply it everywhere to the code.

## Incognito, the Secret Lives of the Brain

- You practice things so you don't have to think about it. Your mind actually does automating things already.
- Reality is not subjective.
- Bad publicity is better than no publicity because people, when recalling things, sometimes think it's true even if it's not. (Illusion of truth).
- Consciousness is the long-term planner. But when you automatize something, it becomes second nature.
- Your body has a gut feel because it has other nervous system components. So try to follow your hunches. Like, that's why you can flip a coin if you are torn between 2 decisions. If you want something before the coin lands, then take it.
- Your brain literally becomes quieter once you've burned down a game in your brain.
- Babies are not blank slates. They have things like reasoning, physical causality, numbers, etc to make them survive.
- Our brains are slow at conditional logic but strong at social logic.
