---
layout: post
title:  "TIL, 2018-06-18"
date:   2018-06-18 12:18:18 +0800
categories: programming
summary: "Where I..."
---

- [Millennials decision making](https://www2.deloitte.com/content/dam/Deloitte/global/Documents/About-Deloitte/gx-millenial-survey-2016-exec-summary.pdf)
  - Based on: Personal values/morals, impact on clients/customers, personal goals/ambitions, being true to the organization's values/overall sense of purpose, meeting the organization's formal targets, avoiding trouble/minimizing personal risk, impact on colleagues.  - High millennial priority but low employer priority: providing good income to our employees, being a good place to work, improving the skills of the workforce, providing services/goods that make a positive difference to people's lives, generating and supporting jobs.  - Little desire to be famous, have a high profile on social media, or accumulate great wealth.
  - Personal goals: work/life balance, owning a home, partner for life, financial security that allows them to save enough money for a comfortable retirement.
  - No shortcuts: hard work, lucky breaks, great mentors.
  - Pay and financial benefits = really important.
  - "If you can't trust your employees to work flexibly, then why hire them in the first place?"
  - High levels of satisfaction when there is a creative, inclusive working culture, rather than a more authoritarian, rules-based approach.
  - Open and free-flowing communication, mutual support/tolerance, sense of purpose beyond financial success, active encouragement of ideas among all employees, strong commitment to equality/inclusiveness, support/understanding of the ambitions of younger employees.
