---
layout: post
title:  "TIL, 2018-09-30"
date:   2018-09-30 15:47:36 +0800
categories: programming
summary: "Where I..."
---

# Hire people who aren't proven
[Reference](https://leonardofed.io/blog/startups-hiring.html)

- You have to go after people that aren't proven, and you need to be really good at evaluating them with much less data points.
- Don't hire like the big companies, they have thousands of candidates and need an objective baseline to judge them.
- Try to find an answer to:
  - Can this candidate do the job?
  - Will this candidate be motivated?
  - Will this candidate get along with coworkers?
  - What will this candidate be in three, six, and twelve months from now?
- How do they respond to real-world problems?
- Look for vectors like smartness, attitude, motivation, dynamic learning, courage.
- Comments on HN:
  - Being a good programmer/doctor: be passionate about the craft and love the profession.
  - ***Empathy is not part of CS, but it is important in software engineering. Much of the day-to-day work includes discussing/making decisions, learning about how things work from people with a different set of knowledge, doing things which optimize for the understanding of other people after you,.***
  - "Passionate" in programming is shorthand for "cares for quality" and "will improve on their own".

# The Open-Closed Principle, in Review
[Reference](https://codeblog.jonskeet.uk/2013/03/15/the-open-closed-principle-in-review/)

- The idea of OCP was that a class's implementation could only be modified to correct errors; new or changed features would require a different class be created. Reusing: inheritance, or same interface.
