---
layout: post
title:  "TIL, 2019-12-30"
date:   2019-12-30 11:01:38 +0800
categories: programming
summary: "Where I..."
---

- What's the difference between `markForCheck()` and `detectChanges()`? [Reference](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/41364386/whats-the-difference-between-markforcheck-and-detectchanges)
  - There is a case where any thing inside your model has changed but it hasn't been reflected in the view, so need to notify Angular to detect those changes.
  - It could be because the change detector is detached from the view.
  - It could be because an update has happened but it hasn't been inside the Angular Zone, and therefore Angular doesn't know about it. If a third party function has updated your model and you want to update the view after that, you have to do something like this:

```
 myFunction(){
   someFunctionThatIsRunByAThirdPartyCode();

   // Let's detect the changes that above function made to the model which Angular is not aware of.
    this.cd.detectChanges();
 }
```

- To make this function run inside the Angular change cycle, you can:
  - Wrap it in the Angular zone (`this.zone.run(this.someFunctionThatIsRunByAThirdPartyCode)`)
  - Wrap the function inside a `setTimeout`: `setTimeout(this.someFunctionThatIsRunByAThirdPartyCode)`
  - If you update the model after the change detection cycle is finished, you get this: "Expression has changed after it was checked". This means that the model changed and then I ran my change detection to update the view, but there was another function in your code which updated the model again, and I don't want to run CD again because there is no dirty checking like AngularJS anymore.
- Proper way to fix: Make sure that update is inside the change detection cycle, do not update the model after that and move your code.
- Lazy way: Just make Angular run `detectChanges`.
- Put the code inside a `setTimeout`, because `setTimeout` is patched by zone.

- `markForCheck`: Run the change detection if any of these has happened:
  - One of the `@input` of the component has been completely replaced with a new value, or if the reference of the `@Input` property has changed together.
  - If you don't update the object reference, the change detection is not going to run, and the view will not reflect the update/mutation.
  - An event has been fired and the child components emitted an event.

