---
layout: post
title:  "TIL, 2021-07-28, Button Role"
date:   2021-07-28 12:51:03 +0800
categories: programming
summary: "Where I..."
---

# ARIA: button role
[Reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles/button_role)

- `role="button"` will make an element appear as a button control to a screen reader. Then, `aria-pressed` to create toggle buttons.
- If you are using `role="button"`, instead of semantic `button` or `input type="button"` elements, you will need to make the element focusable and need to define event handlers for click and keydown events, including Enter and Space keys.
- `aria-pressed` - toggle button.
- `aria-expanded` - if the button supports a grouping of other elements.
- Should be activated by both `Enter` and `Space`.

# `tabindex`

- `-1` means the element cannot be reached via keyboard, but could be focused with JS or visually clicking with the mouse.
  - When you have off-screen content that appears on a specific event. Can't focus any element with a negative tabindex, but a script can do so with `focus()`.
- `0` means the element should be focusable AFTER any positive tabindex values and its order is defined by the document's source order.
- Positive value - focusable in sequential keyboard navigation which is the order defined by the value of the number.
- Content should be semantically described using semantic elements.

# HTML elements reference
[Reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element)

- `address` - contact information.
- `article` - a self-contained composition.
- `aside` - a portion of a document whose content is only indirectly related to the document's main content.
- `section` - should always have a heading, with very few exceptions.
- `figure` - self-contained content, with a `figcaption`.
- `abbr` - an abbreviation, optional `title` attribute can provide an expansion or description for the abbreviation.
- `data` .
- `time` - represents a specific period in time.
- `area` - image map - has predefined clickable areas.
- `picture`.
- `details` - disclosure widget with an open state.

# Accessibility in Angular Applications
[Reference](https://blog.angular.io/accessibility-in-angular-e84f73a223f)

- Designing for accessibility - simple animations/interactions, responsive design, high contrast users.
- `LineAnnouncer`.
- Keyboard navigation - `ListKeyManager`.
