---
layout: post
title:  "TIL, 2021-07-22, RxJS articles"
date:   2021-07-22 11:03:35 +0800
categories: programming
summary: "Reading about RxJS"
---

# `tap`, `map` & `switchMap` explained
[Reference](https://offering.solutions/blog/articles/2019/10/20/tap-map-switchmap-explained/)

- Can create an observable of an array with `from()`.
- If we subscribe to it, we could do something with the values which get emitted.
- Tap - can pass up to three methods which have the `void` return type, the original observable stays untouched.
  - You can manipulate items in the stream. It is used for side effects but returns an observable identical to the one from the source.

```
const objects = [
  { id: 1, name: 'Fabian' },
  { id: 2, name: 'Jan-Niklas' },
];

const source$ = from(objects)
  .pipe(tap((item) => (item.name = item.name + '_2')))
  .subscribe((x) => console.log(x));
```

- Map: The `map` is the same as tap, it can manipulate the value and pass it further to the stream again. To manipulate the items in the stream, the `map` operator is your friend.
- `switchMap`: The last result of the observable in the `map` operator. Getting out the value and resolve the first observable.

# Deep Dive Into The RxJs switchMap Operator: How Does it Work?
[Reference](https://blog.angular-university.io/rxjs-switchmap-operator/)

- How do Angular HTTP Observables work?
  - HTTP observables are cold/not live, meaning they will not start emitting values until we subscribe to them.
  - They only emit a single value or an error, and then after they complete, so they are not long-lived Observables.
  - In most cases, no need to unsubscribe, because they will complete after emission.
- Shorthand for the subscribing to the observable.

```
http1$.subscribe(
    console.log,
    console.error,
    () => console.log('http1$ completed')
);

http1$.subscribe(
    val => console.log(val),
    err => console.error(err),
    () => console.log('http1$ completed')
);
```

- `switchMap` to combine two HTTP requests:

```
const saveUser$ = simulateHttp(" user saved ", 1000);

const httpResult$ = saveUser$.pipe(
    switchMap(sourceValue => {
        console.log(sourceValue);
        return simulateHttp(" data reloaded ", 2000);
        }
     )
);

httpResult$.subscribe(
    console.log,
    console.error,
    () => console.log('completed httpResult$')
);
```

- Source observable = `saveUser$`. Result observable = the result of the switchMap (`resultObservable$`).
- If we subscribe to the result obs, that will trigger a subscription to the source Observable.
- One the source Observable emits, the source value emitted is then passed on to the function that we have passed to the `switchMap` operator.
- That function needs to return an `Observable`, that might be built using the source value or not.
- That returned observable is said to be the inner observable. Its output is then emitted also by the result observable.
- When the source observable completes, the result observable also completes.
- Switch - Switching from the source observable to the inner observable.
- switchMap operator will create a derived observable from a source observable and emit those values.
  - When the source emits a new value, it will create a new inner observable and `switch` to those values instead.
  - What gets unsubscribed from are the inner observables that get created on the fly, and not the source observable.
- Combining the output of two variables:
  - Apply the map operator to the inner observable, and return a tuple containing both values.

```
const course$ = simulateHttp({id:1, description: 'Angular For Beginners'}, 1000);

const httpResult$ = course$.pipe(
    switchMap(courses => simulateHttp([], 2000)
                  .pipe(
                     map(lessons => [courses,lessons])
                  ),
    )
);

httpResult$.subscribe(
    console.log,
    console.error,
    () => console.log('completed httpResult$')
);
```

# Comprehensive Guide to Higher-Order RxJs Mapping Operators: switchMap, mergeMap, concatMap (and exhaustMap)
[Reference](https://blog.angular-university.io/rxjs-higher-order-mapping/)

- Map operator: Mapping the values of the input observable.
- Higher-order observable mapping: Instead of mapping a plain value to another value like `map`, we are going to map a value into an `Observable`.
- The result is an observable, but its values are `Observables` as well
- Use case of a higher-order observable: reactive form where we want to save to the back-end when the user is typing in the form.
  - Simple solution would cause nested subscribes.

```
this.form.valueChanges
    .subscribe(
       formValue => {

           const httpPost$ =
                 this.http.put(`/api/course/${courseId}`, formValue);

           httpPost$.subscribe( => Inner observable
               res => ... handle successful save ...
               err => ... handle save error ...
           );

       }
    );
```

  - What we would like to do is to take the form value, map it into a save Observable, and this would create a higher-order Observable, where each value corresponds to a save request.
- Possible use cases, if multiple form values are emitted:
  - Should we wait for one save request to complete before doing another save?
  - Should we do multiple saves in parallel?
  - Should we cancel an ongoing save and start a new one?
  - Should we ignore new save attempts while one is already ongoing?
- In nested subscribes, we are actually triggering the save operations in parallel (not what we want since the backend will handle the saves sequentially).
- Observable concatenation
  - `concat` will subscribe to the first Observable, but not to the second Observable.
  - First one will emit whatever it does, then when it completes, `concat` will then subscribe to the second.
  - Then, when the second completes, the result Observable will also then complete.
- To implement sequential saves:
  - Take the form value and turn it into an `httpPost$` observable.
  - Then, concatenate the multiple `httpPost$` observables together to ensure that an HTTP save is not made before the previous ongoing save completes first.

```
this.form.valueChanges
    .pipe(
        concatMap(formValue => this.http.put(`/api/course/${courseId}`,
                                             formValue))
    )
    .subscribe(
       saveResult =>  ... handle successful save ...,
        err => ... handle save error ...
    );
```

- All the form values are going to be sent to the backend sequentially.
  - `concatMap` is taking each form value and transforming it into a save HTTP Observable.
  - If a second form value comes faster than the save, the new form value will not be immediately mapped to an HTTP request.
  - Instead, `concatMap` will wait for the previous HTTP observable to complete.
  - Can combine with other operators to save only valid form values, and throttle the saves to make sure they don't occur too frequently.

- Merging: When we want to run things in parallel. Note we don't need to wait for the Observable to complete.
  - Like concatMap, the inner Observable is also subscribed to by mergeMap, but unlike concatMap, we don't wait for the previous thing to complete.
  - This would mean the results are running in parallel.
