---
layout: post
title:  "TIL, 2022-10-31, Yarn"
date:   2022-10-31 09:51:15 +0800
categories: programming
summary: "Yarn"
---

# Why you should never use ‘npm install’ in your CI/CD pipelines
[Reference](https://javascript.plainenglish.io/why-you-should-never-use-npm-install-in-your-ci-cd-pipelines-da0b89346d8d)

- `npm ci` is clean install. This relies solely on the dependency definitions in package.json and package-lock.json, but doesn't install it.

# npm install vs update - what's the difference?

- `npm update` updates all the packages in the `node_modules` directory and their dependencies.
- `install` - install and update with latest modules which are in package.json.

# NPM vs Yarn: Which package manager should I use?
[Reference](https://www.imaginarycloud.com/blog/npm-vs-yarn-which-is-better/)

- Package manager - a file that wraps up everything needed to make that software work on the system.
- NPM components: registry, the website, NPM CLI.
  - The largest software registry on the Internet.
  - CLI - `install`, `audit`, `update`, `npm uninstall`, etc.
- Yarn:
  - Built by Facebook and supported by Google, Exponent, Tilde.
  - Built on top of the registry, so packages published on NPM are also avail on Yarn.
- Yarn architecture:
  - Resolution - Yarn perform lookup on records.
  - Cache lookup - Check dependencies in the cache.
  - Installation - installed on `node_modules` or `.yarn` folder.
- Yarn 2: Re-architecture and rewrite of the Yarn project manager.
- Which is better?
  - Metadata - both in `package.json`.
  - Yarn no longer tracks dependencies in the node modules subdirectory.
  - Both do security.
  - `npx` and `yarn dlx` command can run scripts remotely in both NPM and Yarn.
  - Speed: Yarn because it installs dependency packages in parallel.
