---
layout: post
title:  "TIL, 2022-09-09"
date:   2022-09-09 10:17:47 +0800
categories: programming
summary: "Where I..."
---

# Decoded Front-end
[Reference](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e03EHZIVJtM&ab_channel=DecodedFrontend)

- Try catch can catch errors but it doesn't catch ALL errors, and it doesn't catch async errors.
- Angular has `ErrorHandler` class. We can DI it. [Reference](https://angular.io/api/core/ErrorHandler)
- `unknown` vs `any` - will force error to be narrowed first.
- Angular does not catch errors that are in `setTimeout`, but `ErrorHandler` will catch that error.
  - `ngZone.onError` is subscribed to by `ErrorHandler` and is `runOutsideAngular`.
- `tap` can catch errors. But, we can also use `catchError()` anyway and return a new observable (let's say an empty array).
- We can also combine both, so we can use `tap` to set the component error, and also do `catchError` after that replaces the initial error and returns an empty array. So an async pipe in the template will receive what was returned with `catchError`.
- HTTP interceptor = can catch errors on a global scale.

# Push-based Architectures with RxJS
[Reference](https://thomasburlesonia.medium.com/push-based-architectures-with-rxjs-81b327d7c32d)

- Traditional pull-based architecture: the views will explicitly call service methods to "force-reload" the data. Consider `findAllUsers` to retried a list of users.
  - Issues: How do the views know when the data is updated?
  - How do unrelated views get notified that new data is available?
  - Should uncoupled view components poll for updated data?
  - Why is my shared data changing, and who is changing the data when?
- Push-based architecture:
  - *Direct data access is prohibited.* The true data is exposed via a service.
  - Data is always immutable. Data is read-only. Changes to the inside properties are not allowed.
- We are encouraged to write passive view components.
  - Views that only render when the data arrives via a push-stream.
  - Views that delegate user interactions to a non-view layer.
  - Views that require no business-logic testing.

# Components-constructors: the power of ng-content in Angular
[Reference](https://medium.com/angularwave/components-constructors-the-power-of-ng-content-in-angular-a9bf936cb223)
