---
layout: post
title:  "TIL, 2022-10-18, Angular app bootstrap"
date:   2022-10-18 14:04:57 +0800
categories: programming
summary: "Angular app bootstrap"
---

# How to manually bootstrap an Angular application
[Reference](https://medium.com/angular-in-depth/how-to-manually-bootstrap-an-angular-application-9a36ccf86429)

```
@NgModule({
  imports: [BrowserModule],
  declarations: [AppComponent],
  bootstrap: [AppComponent]
})
export class AppModule {}
```

- You can remove `bootstrap:` but you have to implement `ngDoBootstrap`.

```
export class AppModule {
  ngDoBootstrap(app) {  }
}
```

# Internal Politics for Software Engineers and Managers: Part 1
[Reference](https://newsletter.pragmaticengineer.com/p/internal-politics-part-1)

- Political - negative implication. Influential - positive implication/gather support for various initiatives.
- Politics are unavoidable.
  - For women: "As a rule of thumb, women have to learn how to influence people earlier on in their career if they want to get anywhere. This is because we cannot rely on getting credit for our ideas or being perceived as experts – even if we are. We cannot expect to be the loudest or most forceful person. Not that being loud is a good thing, but it can be effective for men. Being perceived as self-interested in any way is a death blow for us; we always have to look like we’re taking care of others. Learning how to navigate organizational politics is a survival skill for women in tech."
  - Politics is present as soon as there is a group decision to be made. Ex: monolith vs microservices.
- "Bad" type of politics:
  - Self-interested - only caring about their career, their projects, and their work.
  - Not letting others contribute, to claim the impact of the project for their promotion push.
  - Manipulating others.
  - Bulldozing their will through.
  - All talk and meetings, but no coding.
- How to influence people in your organization
  - "Trust capital" - titles or authority, tenure, expert in the field, track record, visible work.
  - Figure out who really makes the decisions and befriend them:
    - Find an ally.
    - Regular 1:1s with influential people.
    - Leverage decision makers.
- Building up trust capital:
  - Ask questions and be an active listener.
  - Find someone who you can be comfortable asking the silly questions.
  - Roll up your sleeves and get things done.
  - Bring visibility to your work: Share the work you do with your manager. Consider: 5-15 updates to your manager chain and your team.
  - Support others.
  - Network and influence are connected. If you wish to be someone who can influence people, you'll need to get to the points where enough people trust you for the right reasons.

# Internal politics for software engineers and managers: Part 2
[Reference](https://newsletter.pragmaticengineer.com/p/internal-politics-part-2)

- "Buy or build" debate.
- Political situations as an IC: unblocking, getting things done quicker, gathering support for an initiative.
- Becoming "influential" as an IC:
  - Observation - identify people whom others listen to the most.
  - Find out who really makes the decisions and connect with them.
  - Build "trust capital" faster.
- Ship great work.
- Promote your work, in the right way.
- Take part in cross-team projects.
- Good personal brand.
