---
layout: post
title:  "TIL, 2023-07-28"
date:   2023-07-28 07:51:01 +0800
categories: programming
summary: "Where I..."
---

[Reference](https://www.infoq.com/news/2023/04/rust-rspack-webpack-compatible/)

# Do Your Regional Websites Talk Funny
[Reference](https://shopify.engineering/internationalization-i18n-best-practices-front-end-developers)

- Internationalisation - not just about about translations
- Translation strings
- Chinese, Korean, Japanese "10 million" is an actual word, so "billion" should not be an interpolated string.
- Vietnamese writing system - has a lot of Unicode/symbols.
  - Fonts - if they can't find a glyph, then they will put an alternate font.
  - You can use `lang()` pseudo-class to show a different font for another language.
  - Declare Latin-based font first

# GraphQL

- Why GraphQL? Hate interacting with REST APIs - many APIs to get the data that you need.
- Rest API - a change in the BE type means you need a new type in the front-end.
- Developer experience/tooling
- "Back-end for front-end".
- When to use?
  - Multiple clients/apps use the same data
  - Data in multiple places/data access layer. (Not the API - works with multiple back-end - and multiple back-end services can be federated).
  - TS for API/end to end type safety.

# AI, Media and the Web

- Visual media can be your biggest competitive advantage.
- Between 2019 and 2022, image bandwidth grew by 25% and video traffic grey by 37%.
- For E-Commerce, spic scale has become the new normal
- Ex: Cloud-generative can scale images to any dimension by adding a background - using `Cloudinary`.
- Generative-replace
- Image captioning (alt text)?
- Upscaling
- Cropping video

# Headless and Modern Front-end Frameworks

- Content editors: create once, publish anywhere.

# `UNTestable`

- [Reference](https://uilicious.com/)
- [Reference](untestable.site)
- Not being able to click - because Selenium will try to click on the upper left part of the button. Should click on the center
- Randomly rerendering always (all frameworks).

# AI Engineer (Swyx)

- [Reference](https://www.latent.space/p/lsu-beta?triedSigningIn=true)
- With an AI layer now, there is a job that is emerging - AI engineer over ML engineers.
- Sociology issue - there are AI threads happening in every Slack
- Historically, AI has been Python-centric, more libs in JS.
- AI Engineer
- `refine-i18n`

# Micro-frontend

- Why? As products get bigger, we need it more, as we have a big ball of mud.

# Module Federation

# Reinventing Vue: Lessons Learned

- Vue was released in 2013, 1.0 in 2015, 2.0 in 2016, and 3.0 in 2022.
- Why?
  - Vue 2 codebase needed to be modernized. Not using Typescript, Messy internal layer separation, compiler capability was limited.
  - Address scalability, maintainability issues, a more refactor-friendly/composition API.
  - Raise browser support baseline: Leverage new language/browser features, while dropping legacy browsers.
- Mistakes: Many users are still stuck on Vue 2: Migration cost, blocked by dependencies, some companies needed legacy browser support.
- Mistake: Too many small breaking changes (about 20-30).
  - Lesson learned: Keep things working by default, and use the deprecate, opt-in, remove cycle.
- Mistake: Underestimated the impact on ecosystem libraries.
  - Breaking changes can also hit library authors, not just application code.
  - Lesson learned: Discourage/prohibit the use of internal APIs.
- Mistake: Not releasing everything together.
  - Was still WIP when released: Docs with composition API, official libraries like router and vuex, Dev tools.
  - Why? Wanted to ship. The impression was "if core is ready, Vue is ready" when it really wasn't. And bad impressions last for years.
- What went right: Embracing composition.
  - Based on React hooks.
- What went right: Investing in DX.
  - Vite: born out of a Vue-only dev server prototype.
  - Docs.
  - Volar (VS Code extension): Vastly improved IDE and TS experience for Vue Single File Components.
- Looking forwards:
  - Focus on improvements that are seamlessly adoptable/opt-in.
  - Ex: Vapor mode, reactivity system.

# A Tale of Two Webs

- [Reference](https://localfirstweb.dev/)
- The industry keeps on spending time about developer experience. Implicit assumption that THAT improves user experience.
- The relationship between users and devices (AI-generated shit, smart contracts) has changed.
- Moving to 0 server/peer-to-peer?
- Issues:
  - Web apps getting re-downloaded each visit - do they really need to do that?
  - Re-download?
  - No information privacy.
- Maybe the web needs to move from the servers onto the devices?
