---
layout: post
title:  "TIL, 2023-11-29"
date:   2023-11-29 14:07:38 +0800
categories: programming
summary: "Where I..."
---

# Incremental Static Regeneration (ISR) In Next.Js
[Reference](https://blog.openreplay.com/incremental-static-regeneration-in-nextjs/)

- Create/serve pre-rendered pages on demand, balancing real-time updates and performance.
- SSG: Generate all pages during the build process.
- SSR: Generate each page on every request.
- ISR: On each page, indicate how frequently the page should be regenerated in the background.

## Benefits

- Real-time update the stale pages in the background.
- Personalised content - Generate personalised static pages based on the user-specific data.
- SEO-friendly.
- Developer experience.
- Reduce cost for the build process.

## Problems

- Cache invalidation
- If there are API calls, then the compatibility/synchronisation can be challenging.
- Increased complexity.
- Server load.

# 5 Lessons Learned From Taking Next.js App Router to Production
[Reference](https://www.inngest.com/blog/5-lessons-learned-from-taking-next-js-app-router-to-production)


## Multi-tenant repo - thoughts

- No problems on authenticated fetches because we have user already.
- Problem is on non-authenticated fetches like:
  - Bootstrap
  - Terms and conditions
  - Help center/static documents
- Biggest change is moving the folder structure of the pages.
  - Long-term this allows us to move to full-route caching the pages (we are caching responses already anyway).
- Middleware only is to **add locale** if there is no locale specified, and use `negotiator` to figure out what locale to add.
- When we have locale in the params (not query params), we can access that anywhere in the server, even without the user.

## Thoughts

- ISR for pages that need to be updated frequently.
- We are doing SSR now for the layout, and then SPA-style for the listing pages.
- We are already caching Bootstrap/all responses via Next's fetch API.
