---
layout: post
title:  "TIL, 2023-07-25, React Server Components"
date:   2023-07-25 13:37:12 +0800
categories: programming
summary: "React Server Components"
---

# How React 18 Improves Application Performance
[Reference](https://vercel.com/blog/how-react-18-improves-application-performance)

- Any task that takes more than 50ms to run is a long task.
- This comes from the fact that devices must create a new frame every 16ms (60fps) to maintain a smooth visual experience, however, they must also perform other tasks, such as responding to JS.
- 50ms means the devices has 33.33ms for the device to perform other tasks.
- Total blocking time:
  - Between the First Contentful Paint and Time to Interactive.
- Interaction to next paint: Time from a user's first interaction with the page to when the interaction is visible on-screen, the next paint.
- Visual update in React is divided into two phases: the render phase and the commit phase.
  - Render - computation phase where React elements are reconciled with the existing DOM.
  - React calculates the differences between the current DOM and the new React component tree and prepares the necessary updates.
- Synchronous render - React give the same priority to all elements within a component tree.
  - During this time, the main thread is blocked. Example: search field where you do `setText` - there is a delay.
- React 18: New concurrent renderer that exposes ways for us to mark certain renders as non-urgent.
  - React can pause and resume the rendering of one or multiple component trees to achieve the most optimal user experience.

## Transitions

- We can mark update as non-urgent by using `startTransition`.
- When a transition starts, the concurrent renderer prepares the new tree in the background.

```
import { useTransition } from "react";

function Button() {
  const [isPending, startTransition] = useTransition();

  return (
    <button
      onClick={() => {
        urgentUpdate();
        startTransition(() => {
          nonUrgentUpdate()
        })
      }}
    >...</button>
  )
}
```

- Fix using `useTransition`

```
import React, { useState, useTransition } from "react";
import CityList from "./CityList";

export default function SearchCities() {
  const [text, setText] = useState("Am");
  const [searchQuery, setSearchQuery] = useState(text);
  const [isPending, startTransition] = useTransition();

   return (
      <main>
          <h1><code>startTransition</code></h1>
          <input
              type="text"
              value={text}
              onChange={(e) => {
                 setText(e.target.value)
                 startTransition(() => {             <- React renders the new tree on each keystroke, but starts preparing
                    setSearchQuery(e.target.value)   <- the new version in memory while the curren UI remains responsive to
                                                     <- current user input.
                 })
             }}  />
          <CityList searchQuery={searchQuery} />
      </main>
     );
};
```

## React Server Components

- Send the actual serialized component tree to the client. Client-side React renderer performantly reconstructs the React component tree without sending the **HTML file or JS bundle**.
- When you do `use client`, you tell the bundler to "add this component and its imports" to the client bundle and React to hydrate the tree client-side to act interactivity.

## React Suspense

- We delay the rendering of a component until certain conditions are met, like data being loaded.

## Data Fetching

- `cache` that remembers the result of the wrapped function call.

## Introducing Zero-Bundle-Size React Server Components
[Reference](https://legacy.reactjs.org/blog/2020/12/21/data-fetching-with-react-server-components.html)

- `react-fetch` API
- Dependencies in the server component are not a part of the bundle.
- A client component can receive props from the server
- Asking to re-render the server component:
  - Set a location and re-render the server tree from the root.
- Server components vs SSR:
  - Clicking on the note to show on the right - keeps all client-rendered components don't get blown away.
- Shared component: Can render on the server or the component, whoever renders it dictates.
- Suspense + Server components
- Transitions - Defining component in a transition means you respond immediately.
- Which components are on the server and which are on the client?
- React IO libraries
  - react-fs, react-pg, react-fetch

## Musings

- So most of our app should honestly be server-rendered?
- Ex: Listing page, maybe the search input, tabs, etc. is client-rendered, but banner, listing items etc. are server-rendered.
- Then we should use `useTransition` more.
- So this is why we shouldn't probably be super invested in react-query, or at least have it alongside server components

